Hi, everyone, in this last year, we are going to implement the functionality of our colors switcher.
All right, so now let's go ahead and implement that.
So first things first, what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the body because we are changing the
background colour of it.
Right.
So we are going to say document that body.
This is a special selector in JavaScript in which we through which we can select the body.
The next thing that I want to select is going to be our button.
And then we are going to selling the paragraph, the button, because we are going to add an event listener
to it, the Parro, because we are going to change the text dynamically to match that of the background.
So whatever the background color is, we are going to grab the the color code, the the the RGV code
for that.
Right.
So we are going to say consed I'm going to call it switch Beaton's short button for sure.
Button.
You're going to say document dot.
We're going to use our very old query selector.
And by now I'm sure you have mastered the query selector and it has a class of SU which you can always
check whether or not you have got the proper alignment or you have grabbed it properly.
But just consider log in it.
If you consider logs which b10 and you get this, this element of button which is on the screen, when
you get it, it means that you have successfully selected.
Sometimes when the event listeners, they do not work, it's because you have not properly selected.
It may be the class name has not been typed correctly, or maybe it's a IDE name and you have added
a dot or something like that.
And that line's.
Are going to grab the.
The excuse me, the paragraph as well.
So we are going to say, so which PEMRA and we are going to say document not to very select and it has
a class of color.
All right, so now whenever we click on the switch button, so the event listener is added on the switch,
but Biton button right button.
And we are looking for a click and we are listening for a click.
And when the click happens, we are going to run a certain function.
Right.
And.
Before actually writing anything in here, first off, I'm going to go down here and I'm going to implement
the random number part for these three color codes for the red, for the green and for the blue.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create another function and I'm going to call it get random
number.
Right.
And we are going to say this function should return math.
This is what we're working with.
Whenever we're working with no random numbers, we are going to say math, that flaw.
So whenever you're working with math, it is going to give you decimal points as well.
And when you say that flaw, you're always going to Florida down.
So if it is three point one, you're going to get three.
If it is three point five, you're going to get three.
Even if it is three point nine, you're going to get three.
So you're always going to come down.
And if you say math, that seal, if it is three point one, you're going to get four.
If it is three point, for example, nine, you're going to get four.
But we are going to Florida down.
We're going to round it down, mathematically speaking, and we are going to say math that random,
so random is a method that is going to give us random numbers.
And we want numbers all the way to two hundred and fifty six.
And why 256?
The reason for that is because we are going to Florida down, so we are going to get two hundred and
fifty five point nine.
So what is it if we, if we rounded down it is going, we are going to get two hundred and fifty five.
So because when Y 255, because the range for RGV colors is from zero to 255, that is the ultimate
range.
So we have created our get random number function here and in here.
What I'm going to say, I'm going to call that get random function three times.
Now we have talked about how functions can be postin as arguments and as return values.
All right.
And they're basically called callback functions.
We have talked about them and we are going to pass them three times.
So that's that's number two and this is number three, and you might ask, OK, why three times?
And I'm going to tell you why the first time that this function runs, it is going to give us a random
number for the red.
The second time it is going to give us a random number for the blue sari, for the green.
And the third time that it runs, it's going to give us a random number for the blue.
Now, if you were to add in Alpha Channel to this, then you would have created another another function
and then you would have run that function, because these three, all of them have the same nature.
But as far as the Alpha Channel is concerned, the alpha channel goes from zero to one.
All right.
And but in this case, we just want to add we just want to grab a number.
And the Alpha channel is a simpler kind of idea than this.
You could just add it manually at the end, right?
Now, this this function has been called three times, and each time this function is called, I want
to store it within a variable and I'm going to call it variable one, get random number and I'm going
to copy this.
Well, I'm just going to copy it and I'm going to put it here and put it here.
And I'm going to call it variable.
Let's call to add color through it.
So whenever this function is called, I want to capture the result of that function.
So maybe the result of the function is let's come here.
So when I click on it, the result of the first function is 255.
The result of the second function call is to a one and the result of the third function.
Call this 40.
And so no one is going to be 255, color two to one and color three 40.
And when that happens, what do I want to do?
I want to create a color string.
Why do I want to create a color string?
Because I want this colored string to be added to our paragraph.
Right.
I want it to be added to our paragraph.
So the corresponding number should have a corresponding color for the background.
And in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab our back ticks or templated strengths.
I know you guys can see how useful they are.
We are going to say RGV.
And we are going to open parentheses, so for these first random number, we are going to add it for
the read.
All right.
And we are going to say color one.
And then we add a comma, because in the RGV, whenever you add a number, you pass in a comma.
Basically, we are recreating this RGV function in a sense of success in JavaScript.
All right.
And for the second value, we are going to grab the color, too, which is so the first one.
It is going to be you know what I'm just going to add to here and this is going to be red.
This is going to be green and this is going to be blue.
So I'm going to add color to there and this is going to be our color number three.
So now taking a look at this, this is a very, very valid Cyesis property value.
So we have another GBE and inside the parentheses, we have three values because the result of this
color, one, two and three is going to be a number.
It's not going to be a string.
It's going to be some sort of number.
And when you pass and the number here, you're going to get a valid Cyesis property value.
All right, and let's go ahead and let's consider logit.
We are going to say Colace to Ringa, let's save it, and now let's come in to inspect and let's go
into concern and now let's start switching.
So if I click on it, we are going to get one.
No, this is a random number.
Second, third, the other other other.
So each time we are going to get a random number.
So now we have two things remaining.
The first thing is we should pass in or print this number instead of this paragraph.
And the second thing is we should change the background color of the body corresponding to that RGV
value that we have.
So I could, like, separate this into two videos, but that's very, very simple.
Basically, we just need to write two more lines of code and that's it.
So first off, let's grab the body and we are going to say style and.
We are going to say background, give me color and we are going to add it, we are going to say the
color string should be the background color of the body.
So now if I click on it, we see a different color each time.
Where is the color code?
The color code inside this console.
See, but now the only thing remaining is we want to update this paragraph.
So if the color code is 227 138, we want the paragraph to show the same thing.
So let's go ahead.
Let's select our power from here.
And this is super simple.
We have actually done this and we are going to say inner text.
So what should be the inner text of the power?
We are going to say colors string super simple.
So now if I click on it, we see 972 one six sixty five here and nine seven two one six five here.
And with this, our project comes to an end.
But I'm just going to go ahead and come take the console and let's go full screen and close this and
close that.
And now if I click on it each time, I'm going to get a different background color.
So even though this project was very, very simple, we have actually covered a lot in here.
We have talked about the variables.
We have talked about evilness, listeners' functions.
How do we have objects?
No, we don't have any objects.
We don't have any arrays.
But we do have string methods.
We have template strings.
We have our styles.
We have our inner inner text and a lot of a lot of things.
And also we have learned a new thing, which is math.
The math object and the math object has properties.
One of the properties is certain methods because they are functions actually floor as a method of this
math object.
And random is another method of this math object that set for this lecture and for this project.
See you guys in the next lecture and in the next project.
And until then, good bye.